data.md, before:

WebAssembly Data
================

```k
require "domains.k"

module WASM-DATA
    imports DOMAINS
```

Parsing
-------

### Layout

WebAssembly allows for block comments using `(;` and `;)`, and line comments using `;;`.
Additionally, white-space is skipped/ignored.
Declaring regular expressions of sort `#Layout` infroms the K lexer to drop these tokens.

```k
    syntax #Layout ::= r"\\(;([^;]|(;+([^;\\)])))*;\\)" [token]
                     | r";;[^\\n\\r]*"                  [token]
                     | r"[\\ \\n\\r\\t]"                [token]
 // -----------------------------------------------------------
```

### Identifiers

As defined in the WebAssembly spec, the syntax of identifiers is as follows.

**TODO**: Unsupported characters: `.:^@`

```k
    syntax Identifier ::= r"\\$[0-9a-zA-Z!$%&'*+/<>?_`|~=-]*" [avoid, token]
 // ------------------------------------------------------------------------
    
    syntax Index ::= Int | Identifier
 // ---------------------------------
```

WebAssembly Types
-----------------

### Base Types

WebAssembly has four basic types, for 32 and 64 bit integers and floats.

```k
    syntax IValType ::= "i32" | "i64"
    syntax FValType ::= "f32" | "f64"
    syntax  ValType ::= IValType | FValType
 // ---------------------------------------
```

### Type Constructors

There are two basic type-constructors: sequencing (`[_]`) and function spaces (`_->_`).

```k
    syntax ValTypes ::= List{ValType, ""}
    syntax VecType  ::= "[" ValTypes "]"
 // ------------------------------------

    syntax FuncType ::= VecType "->" VecType
 // ----------------------------------------
```

All told, a `Type` can be a value type, vector of types, or function type.

```k
    syntax Type ::= ".Type" | ValType | VecType | FuncType
 // ------------------------------------------------------
```

We can append two `ValTypes`s with the `_+_` operator.

```k
    syntax ValTypes ::= ValTypes "+" ValTypes [function]
 // ----------------------------------------------------
    rule .ValTypes + VTYPES            => VTYPES
    rule (VT:ValType VTYPES) + VTYPES' => VT (VTYPES + VTYPES')
```

### Type Information

The `#width` function returns the bit-width of a given `IValType`.

```k
    syntax Int ::= #width    ( IValType ) [function]
    syntax Int ::= #numBytes ( IValType ) [function]
 // ------------------------------------------------
    rule #width(i32) => 32
    rule #width(i64) => 64

    rule #numBytes(ITYPE) => #width(ITYPE) /Int 8
```

`2 ^Int 32` and `2 ^Int 64` are used often enough to warrant providing helpers for them.

```k
    syntax Int ::= #pow  ( IValType ) [function, smtlib(pow )] /* 2 ^Int #width(T)          */
                 | #pow1 ( IValType ) [function, smtlib(pow1)] /* 2 ^Int (#width(T) -Int 1) */
 // ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    rule #pow1(i32) => 2147483648
    rule #pow (i32) => 4294967296
    rule #pow1(i64) => 9223372036854775808
    rule #pow (i64) => 18446744073709551616
```

### Type Mutability

```k
    syntax Mut ::= ".Mut" | "const" | "var"
 // ---------------------------------------
```

Values
------

### Basic Values

WebAssembly values are either integers or floating-point numbers, of 32- or 64-bit widths.

```k
    syntax Number ::= Int | Float
 // -----------------------------
```

Proper values are numbers annotated with their types.

```k
    syntax IVal ::= "<" IValType ">" Int    [klabel(<_>_)]
    syntax FVal ::= "<" FValType ">" Float  [klabel(<_>_)]
    syntax  Val ::= "<"  ValType ">" Number [klabel(<_>_)]
                  | IVal | FVal
 // ---------------------------
```

We also add `undefined` as a value, which makes many partial functions in the semantics total.

```k
    syntax Val ::= "undefined"
 // --------------------------
```

### Value Operations

The `#chop` function will ensure that an integer value is wrapped to the correct bit-width.
The `#wrap` function wraps an integer to a given bit width.

```k
    syntax IVal ::= #chop ( IVal ) [function]
 // -----------------------------------------
    rule #chop(< ITYPE > N) => < ITYPE > (N modInt #pow(ITYPE)) [concrete]

    syntax Int  ::= #wrap(Int, Int) [function]
 // ------------------------------------------
    rule #wrap(WIDTH, N) => N modInt (1 <<Int WIDTH) [concrete]
```

### Signed Interpretation

Functions `#signed` and `#unsigned` allow for easier operation on twos-complement numbers.
These functions assume that the argument integer is in the valid range of signed and unsigned values of the respective type, so they will not correctly map arbitrary integers into the corret range.
Some operations extend integers from 1, 2, or 4 bytes, so a special function with a bit width argument helps with the conversion.

```k
    syntax Int ::= #signed      ( IValType , Int ) [function]
                 | #unsigned    ( IValType , Int ) [function]
                 | #signedWidth ( Int      , Int ) [function]
 // ---------------------------------------------------------
    rule #signed(ITYPE, N) => N                  requires 0            <=Int N andBool N <Int #pow1(ITYPE)
    rule #signed(ITYPE, N) => N -Int #pow(ITYPE) requires #pow1(ITYPE) <=Int N andBool N <Int #pow (ITYPE)

    rule #unsigned(ITYPE, N) => N +Int #pow(ITYPE) requires N  <Int 0
    rule #unsigned(ITYPE, N) => N                  requires 0 <=Int N

    rule #signedWidth(8,  N) => N            requires 0     <=Int N andBool N <Int 128
    rule #signedWidth(8,  N) => N -Int 256   requires 128   <=Int N andBool N <Int 256
    rule #signedWidth(16, N) => N            requires 0     <=Int N andBool N <Int 32768
    rule #signedWidth(16, N) => N -Int 65536 requires 32768 <=Int N andBool N <Int 65536
    rule #signedWidth(32, N) => #signed(i32, N)
```

### Boolean Interpretation

Function `#bool` converts a `Bool` into an `Int`.

```k
    syntax Int ::= #bool ( Bool ) [function]
 // ----------------------------------------
    rule #bool( B:Bool ) => 1 requires B
    rule #bool( B:Bool ) => 0 requires notBool B
```

Data Structures
---------------

WebAssembly is a stack-machine, so here we provide the stack to operate over.
Operator `_++_` implements an append operator for sort `ValStack`.

```k
    syntax ValStack ::= ".ValStack"
                   | Val      ":"  ValStack
                   | ValStack "++" ValStack [function]
 // --------------------------------------------------
    rule .ValStack       ++ VALSTACK' => VALSTACK'
    rule (SI : VALSTACK) ++ VALSTACK' => SI : (VALSTACK ++ VALSTACK')
```

`#zero` will create a specified stack of zero values in a given type.
`#take` will take the prefix of a given stack, checking that the value types match the supplied type-sequence.
`#drop` will drop the prefix of a given stack, checking that the value types match the supplied type-sequence.

```k
    syntax ValStack ::= #zero ( ValTypes )         [function]
                   | #take ( ValTypes , ValStack ) [function]
                   | #drop ( ValTypes , ValStack ) [function]
 // ---------------------------------------------------------
    rule #zero(.ValTypes)             => .ValStack
    rule #zero(ITYPE:IValType VTYPES) => < ITYPE > 0 : #zero(VTYPES)

    rule #take(.ValTypes,   _)                              => .ValStack
    rule #take(TYPE VTYPES, < TYPE > VAL:Number : VALSTACK) => < TYPE > VAL : #take(VTYPES, VALSTACK)

    rule #drop(.ValTypes,   VALSTACK)                       => VALSTACK
    rule #drop(TYPE VTYPES, < TYPE > VAL:Number : VALSTACK) => #drop(VTYPES, VALSTACK)
```

Byte Map
--------

Wasm memories are byte arrays, sized in pages of 65536 bytes, initialized to be all zero bytes.
To avoid storing many zeros in what may be sparse memory, we implement memory as maps, and store only non-zero bytes.
The maps store integers, but maintains the invariant that each stored integer is between 1 and 255, inclusive.
`BM [ N := I ]` writes the integer `I` to memory as bytes (little-endian), starting at index `N`.

```k
    syntax Map ::= Map "[" Int ":=" Int "]" [function]
 // --------------------------------------------------
    rule BM [ IDX := 0  ] => BM
    rule BM [ IDX := VAL] => BM [IDX <- VAL modInt 256 ] [ IDX +Int 1 := VAL /Int 256 ]
      requires VAL modInt 256 =/=Int 0
       andBool VAL >Int 0
    // Don't store 0 bytes.
    rule BM [ IDX := VAL] => BM [IDX <- undef          ] [ IDX +Int 1 := VAL /Int 256 ]
      requires VAL modInt 256 ==Int 0
       andBool VAL >Int 0
```

`#range(BM, START, WIDTH)` reads off `WIDTH` elements from `BM` beginning at position `START`, and converts it into an unsigned integer.
The function interprets the range of bytes as little-endian.

```k
    syntax Int ::= #range ( Map , Int , Int ) [function]
 // ----------------------------------------------------
    rule #range(BM:Map, START, WIDTH) => 0
      requires WIDTH ==Int 0
    rule #range(BM:Map, START, WIDTH) => #lookup(BM, START) +Int (#range(BM, START +Int 1, WIDTH -Int 1) *Int 256)
      requires WIDTH >Int 0 [concrete]
```

`#lookup` looks up a key in a map, defaulting to 0 if the map does not contain the key.

```k
    syntax Int ::= #lookup ( Map , Int ) [function]
 // -----------------------------------------------
    rule #lookup( (KEY |-> VAL) M, KEY ) => VAL                               [concrete]
    rule #lookup(               M, KEY ) => 0 requires notBool KEY in_keys(M) [concrete]
```

`#clearRange(MAP, START, END)` removes all entries from the map from `START` to `END`, inclusive.

```k
    syntax Map ::= #clearRange(Map, Int, Int) [function]
 // ----------------------------------------------------
    rule #clearRange(M, START, END) => M
      requires START >=Int END
    rule #clearRange(M, START, END) => #clearRange(M [START <- undef], START +Int 1, END)
      requires START <Int  END
```

```k
endmodule
```

Commit message:

moduleinst is taken out into a separated cell & call by index and identifier supported (#82)
* Module instance migrated from <curFrame> cell to <modules> cell

* removed an inaccurate description

* Now the definition for index, identifier and address are all clearly separated.

* The Text Format Conventions. This should come together with the last commit but I forgot it.

* fixes the tests according to the last change.

* format fix

* format fix

* format fix

* removed the <modules> cell and keeped the configuration simple

* Added the sort for external values and reformatted text format indices part.

* fixed a spelling mistake

* Removed sort externval which shouldn't be on this branch

this should fix the warning

* simplified the logic by using typecast and some format fixings.

* logic & format fix.

data.md, after:

WebAssembly Data
================

```k
require "domains.k"

module WASM-DATA
    imports DOMAINS
```

Parsing
-------

### Layout

WebAssembly allows for block comments using `(;` and `;)`, and line comments using `;;`.
Additionally, white-space is skipped/ignored.
Declaring regular expressions of sort `#Layout` infroms the K lexer to drop these tokens.

```k
    syntax #Layout ::= r"\\(;([^;]|(;+([^;\\)])))*;\\)" [token]
                     | r";;[^\\n\\r]*"                  [token]
                     | r"[\\ \\n\\r\\t]"                [token]
 // -----------------------------------------------------------
```

### Identifiers

As defined in the WebAssembly spec, the syntax of identifiers is as follows.

**TODO**: Unsupported characters: `.:^@`

```k
    syntax Identifier ::= r"\\$[0-9a-zA-Z!$%&'*+/<>?_`|~=-]*" [avoid, token]
 // ------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

### Text Format Indices

Indices in the text format could be either an `address` or an `identifier.

```k
    syntax TextFormatIdx ::= Int | Identifier
 // -----------------------------------------
```

WebAssembly Types
-----------------

### Base Types

WebAssembly has four basic types, for 32 and 64 bit integers and floats.

```k
    syntax IValType ::= "i32" | "i64"
    syntax FValType ::= "f32" | "f64"
    syntax  ValType ::= IValType | FValType
 // ---------------------------------------
```

### Type Constructors

There are two basic type-constructors: sequencing (`[_]`) and function spaces (`_->_`).

```k
    syntax ValTypes ::= List{ValType, ""}
    syntax VecType  ::= "[" ValTypes "]"
 // ------------------------------------

    syntax FuncType ::= VecType "->" VecType
 // ----------------------------------------
```

All told, a `Type` can be a value type, vector of types, or function type.

```k
    syntax Type ::= ".Type" | ValType | VecType | FuncType
 // ------------------------------------------------------
```

We can append two `ValTypes`s with the `_+_` operator.

```k
    syntax ValTypes ::= ValTypes "+" ValTypes [function]
 // ----------------------------------------------------
    rule .ValTypes + VTYPES            => VTYPES
    rule (VT:ValType VTYPES) + VTYPES' => VT (VTYPES + VTYPES')
```

### Type Information

The `#width` function returns the bit-width of a given `IValType`.

```k
    syntax Int ::= #width    ( IValType ) [function]
    syntax Int ::= #numBytes ( IValType ) [function]
 // ------------------------------------------------
    rule #width(i32) => 32
    rule #width(i64) => 64

    rule #numBytes(ITYPE) => #width(ITYPE) /Int 8
```

`2 ^Int 32` and `2 ^Int 64` are used often enough to warrant providing helpers for them.

```k
    syntax Int ::= #pow  ( IValType ) [function, smtlib(pow )] /* 2 ^Int #width(T)          */
                 | #pow1 ( IValType ) [function, smtlib(pow1)] /* 2 ^Int (#width(T) -Int 1) */
 // ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    rule #pow1(i32) => 2147483648
    rule #pow (i32) => 4294967296
    rule #pow1(i64) => 9223372036854775808
    rule #pow (i64) => 18446744073709551616
```

### Type Mutability

```k
    syntax Mut ::= ".Mut" | "const" | "var"
 // ---------------------------------------
```

Values
------

### Basic Values

WebAssembly values are either integers or floating-point numbers, of 32- or 64-bit widths.

```k
    syntax Number ::= Int | Float
 // -----------------------------
```

Proper values are numbers annotated with their types.

```k
    syntax IVal ::= "<" IValType ">" Int    [klabel(<_>_)]
    syntax FVal ::= "<" FValType ">" Float  [klabel(<_>_)]
    syntax  Val ::= "<"  ValType ">" Number [klabel(<_>_)]
                  | IVal | FVal
 // ---------------------------
```

We also add `undefined` as a value, which makes many partial functions in the semantics total.

```k
    syntax Val ::= "undefined"
 // --------------------------
```

### Value Operations

The `#chop` function will ensure that an integer value is wrapped to the correct bit-width.
The `#wrap` function wraps an integer to a given bit width.

```k
    syntax IVal ::= #chop ( IVal ) [function]
 // -----------------------------------------
    rule #chop(< ITYPE > N) => < ITYPE > (N modInt #pow(ITYPE)) [concrete]

    syntax Int  ::= #wrap(Int, Int) [function]
 // ------------------------------------------
    rule #wrap(WIDTH, N) => N modInt (1 <<Int WIDTH) [concrete]
```

### Signed Interpretation

Functions `#signed` and `#unsigned` allow for easier operation on twos-complement numbers.
These functions assume that the argument integer is in the valid range of signed and unsigned values of the respective type, so they will not correctly map arbitrary integers into the corret range.
Some operations extend integers from 1, 2, or 4 bytes, so a special function with a bit width argument helps with the conversion.

```k
    syntax Int ::= #signed      ( IValType , Int ) [function]
                 | #unsigned    ( IValType , Int ) [function]
                 | #signedWidth ( Int      , Int ) [function]
 // ---------------------------------------------------------
    rule #signed(ITYPE, N) => N                  requires 0            <=Int N andBool N <Int #pow1(ITYPE)
    rule #signed(ITYPE, N) => N -Int #pow(ITYPE) requires #pow1(ITYPE) <=Int N andBool N <Int #pow (ITYPE)

    rule #unsigned(ITYPE, N) => N +Int #pow(ITYPE) requires N  <Int 0
    rule #unsigned(ITYPE, N) => N                  requires 0 <=Int N

    rule #signedWidth(8,  N) => N            requires 0     <=Int N andBool N <Int 128
    rule #signedWidth(8,  N) => N -Int 256   requires 128   <=Int N andBool N <Int 256
    rule #signedWidth(16, N) => N            requires 0     <=Int N andBool N <Int 32768
    rule #signedWidth(16, N) => N -Int 65536 requires 32768 <=Int N andBool N <Int 65536
    rule #signedWidth(32, N) => #signed(i32, N)
```

### Boolean Interpretation

Function `#bool` converts a `Bool` into an `Int`.

```k
    syntax Int ::= #bool ( Bool ) [function]
 // ----------------------------------------
    rule #bool( B:Bool ) => 1 requires B
    rule #bool( B:Bool ) => 0 requires notBool B
```

Data Structures
---------------

WebAssembly is a stack-machine, so here we provide the stack to operate over.
Operator `_++_` implements an append operator for sort `ValStack`.

```k
    syntax ValStack ::= ".ValStack"
                   | Val      ":"  ValStack
                   | ValStack "++" ValStack [function]
 // --------------------------------------------------
    rule .ValStack       ++ VALSTACK' => VALSTACK'
    rule (SI : VALSTACK) ++ VALSTACK' => SI : (VALSTACK ++ VALSTACK')
```

`#zero` will create a specified stack of zero values in a given type.
`#take` will take the prefix of a given stack, checking that the value types match the supplied type-sequence.
`#drop` will drop the prefix of a given stack, checking that the value types match the supplied type-sequence.

```k
    syntax ValStack ::= #zero ( ValTypes )         [function]
                   | #take ( ValTypes , ValStack ) [function]
                   | #drop ( ValTypes , ValStack ) [function]
 // ---------------------------------------------------------
    rule #zero(.ValTypes)             => .ValStack
    rule #zero(ITYPE:IValType VTYPES) => < ITYPE > 0 : #zero(VTYPES)

    rule #take(.ValTypes,   _)                              => .ValStack
    rule #take(TYPE VTYPES, < TYPE > VAL:Number : VALSTACK) => < TYPE > VAL : #take(VTYPES, VALSTACK)

    rule #drop(.ValTypes,   VALSTACK)                       => VALSTACK
    rule #drop(TYPE VTYPES, < TYPE > VAL:Number : VALSTACK) => #drop(VTYPES, VALSTACK)
```

Byte Map
--------

Wasm memories are byte arrays, sized in pages of 65536 bytes, initialized to be all zero bytes.
To avoid storing many zeros in what may be sparse memory, we implement memory as maps, and store only non-zero bytes.
The maps store integers, but maintains the invariant that each stored integer is between 1 and 255, inclusive.
`BM [ N := I ]` writes the integer `I` to memory as bytes (little-endian), starting at index `N`.

```k
    syntax Map ::= Map "[" Int ":=" Int "]" [function]
 // --------------------------------------------------
    rule BM [ IDX := 0  ] => BM
    rule BM [ IDX := VAL] => BM [IDX <- VAL modInt 256 ] [ IDX +Int 1 := VAL /Int 256 ]
      requires VAL modInt 256 =/=Int 0
       andBool VAL >Int 0
    // Don't store 0 bytes.
    rule BM [ IDX := VAL] => BM [IDX <- undef          ] [ IDX +Int 1 := VAL /Int 256 ]
      requires VAL modInt 256 ==Int 0
       andBool VAL >Int 0
```

`#range(BM, START, WIDTH)` reads off `WIDTH` elements from `BM` beginning at position `START`, and converts it into an unsigned integer.
The function interprets the range of bytes as little-endian.

```k
    syntax Int ::= #range ( Map , Int , Int ) [function]
 // ----------------------------------------------------
    rule #range(BM:Map, START, WIDTH) => 0
      requires WIDTH ==Int 0
    rule #range(BM:Map, START, WIDTH) => #lookup(BM, START) +Int (#range(BM, START +Int 1, WIDTH -Int 1) *Int 256)
      requires WIDTH >Int 0 [concrete]
```

`#lookup` looks up a key in a map, defaulting to 0 if the map does not contain the key.

```k
    syntax Int ::= #lookup ( Map , Int ) [function]
 // -----------------------------------------------
    rule #lookup( (KEY |-> VAL) M, KEY ) => VAL                               [concrete]
    rule #lookup(               M, KEY ) => 0 requires notBool KEY in_keys(M) [concrete]
```

`#clearRange(MAP, START, END)` removes all entries from the map from `START` to `END`, inclusive.

```k
    syntax Map ::= #clearRange(Map, Int, Int) [function]
 // ----------------------------------------------------
    rule #clearRange(M, START, END) => M
      requires START >=Int END
    rule #clearRange(M, START, END) => #clearRange(M [START <- undef], START +Int 1, END)
      requires START <Int  END
```

```k
endmodule
```
